---
layout: post
title: Starting a New Path
---
Computer programming and software engineering has been a fascination for me for a long time, but it was not until about 10 months ago that I really started pursuing it as a real hobby and possible career.  I've been playing video games ever since I can remember, but I never really thought about how they worked until around the seventh grade.  The internet was starting to become more widespread and my huge nerd of a father taught me the basics of HTML and CSS, and we built a website in the Area51 neighborhood of Geocities, back when that was a thing.  That got me thinking more about computers and how they worked, but sadly it was not something I kept up with.

Fast forward to about 10 months ago, I decided I would try out edX's version of Harvard's Intro to Computer Science known as CS50.  It was a great introduction to programming, it was done mostly in C and was a huge eye-opener into the painstaking detail that has go into getting the basics of a program to work.  It also showed me the incredible power and potential of programming if I could learn the rules and logic of it.  It also showed me that programming is an exercise in being extremely meticulous, the devil is in the details.

A month ago I started Bloc.  An intensive programming course designed to help people learn code and be ready to enter the coding workforce.  It has started with a bit of HTML and CSS since I am blown away at how much more support, options, libraries, and principles there are that go into it since I briefly experimented with it almost 2 decades ago.  I guess it shouldn't be surprising given the ubiquitous nature of HTML and CSS on the internet that it would grow as the internet did, but it is truly amazing how advanced it has become.  It really does make me regret not sticking with it as a kid and how much farther along I could have been in my studies by now, but i don't think moping over what could of been is very productive.

I'm grateful I get the opportunity to jump back into programming and am constantly astounded at the kinds of projects that are out there and the power of programming to not just make life and work easier, but to bring people together.  Seeing the amount of freeware and open source communities, essentially packs of strangers, creating brilliant code is a huge inspiration.  It's going to be tough, I know that for sure, but I'm happy to be embarking on this new path.
